Deadlines How-to (#2811)
AxonFramework/AxonFramework: docs/howtos/modules/deadlines/pages/implementing.adoc

= Implementing deadlines

> As the `SimpleDeadlineManager` is included in the messaging module of Axon framework, and uses Java's `ScheduledExecutorService` no additional dependencies are needed to use it.
> The `SimpleDeadlineManager` can be added both as an Axon Configuration component, or as a Spring Bean.
> For this howto we will configure it as a Spring Bean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the `SimpleDeadlineManager` is included in the messaging module of Axon Framework and uses Java's `ScheduledExecutorService`, no additional dependencies are needed to use it.
The `SimpleDeadlineManager` can be added both as an Axon Configuration component or as a Spring Bean.
For this how-to, we will configure it as a Spring Bean.
```

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public DeadlineManager deadlineManager(
        org.axonframework.config.Configuration configuration
) {
    var provider = new ConfigurationScopeAwareProvider(configuration);
    return SimpleDeadlineManager
            .builder()
            .scopeAwareProvider(provider)
            .build();
}
----

> There are some additional things that could be set.
> All deadline managers need at least the scope-aware provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some additional things could be set for deadline managers.
But all at least need the scope-aware provider.
```

Author: Copied since the file was changed.

    @CommandHandler
    @CreationPolicy(AggregateCreationPolicy.CREATE_IF_MISSING)
    public void handle(IssueExpiringCardCommand command, DeadlineManager deadlineManager) { // <1>
        //check validity
        apply(new ExpiringCardIssuedEvent(command.id(), command.daysValid(), command.amount()));
        Instant trigger = Instant.now().plus(command.daysValid(), ChronoUnit.DAYS).truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS);
        deadlineManager.schedule(trigger, EXPIRED_GIFT_CARD); // <2>
    }

    @DeadlineHandler(deadlineName = EXPIRED_GIFT_CARD) // <3>
    public void on() {
        if (!expired){ //<4>
            apply(new ExpiringCardExpiredEvent(giftCardId));
        }
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler
    public void on(ExpiringCardIssuedEvent event) {
        giftCardId = event.id();
        expired = false;
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler // <5>
    public void on(ExpiringCardExpiredEvent event) {
        expired = true;
    }

    // More handlers are needed to make it useful, left out for brevity.

    public ExpiringGiftCard() {
        // Required by Axon to construct an empty instance to initiate Event Sourcing.
    }
}
----

> <1> Adding the deadline manager to the method makes it easily testable compared to other ways of accessing it from the aggregate.
> <2> We schedule the deadline, so it will trigger at the end of day.
> <3> It's important to use the same name, in this case the deadline does not contain a payload.
> <4> We do a check so even if there is some problem with the deadline manager, we still only send one `ExpiringCardExpiredEvent` event
> <5> On the `ExpiringCardExpiredEvent`, we change the state of the aggregate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Adding the deadline manager to the method makes it easily testable compared to other ways of accessing it from the aggregate.
<2> We schedule the deadline, so it will trigger at the end of the day.
<3> It's important to use the same name. In this case, the deadline does not contain a payload.
<4> We do a check, so even if there is some problem with the deadline manager, we still only send one `ExpiringCardExpiredEvent` event.
<5> On the `ExpiringCardExpiredEvent`, we change the aggregate's state.
```

Author: Copied since the file was changed.
